# Inverter and Hot Water Heater
We are using a Multiplus 12/3000/120-50 120v Inverter powered by Battleborn batteries that are showing 100% full (600Ah).

ISSUE: Approximately 15 secs after turning power on to our Bosch 3000 T water heater, the inverter flashes the low battery light, then the overload light flashes. The inverter stops working.

While it is on with power requested by the water heater, the SmartBMV software shows current = -120A, Power = -1454W.

Note: When I plug the water heater into an extension cord from our house, the Kill-A-Watt shows 10.85A 1235W.

Note: The water heater is on its own circuit. We use other circuits. For example, one for a microwave that appears to be working as expected.

The challenge does not appear to be the water heater since it works fine when powered from our house.

## Battle Born Help
Sent support request on 2/22/2021.  Reply:
```
Hey Margaret,

Thanks for the email.

Based on the description, it seems that you have a battery monitor issue. Could you provide the voltage of the battery bank to cross reference the percentage?
Thanks,
Aaron
775-622-3448
Ext 108
```
-- battery monitor issue:
- does the Inverter communicate with the battery monitor?  That doesn't make sense to me.  How does the inverter determine low battery?
- note in [Victron's video](https://youtu.be/UPfUn5ki7OM?t=235), the inverter is plugged directly into the battery (as it is in our Van).  So I get you are saying the battery monitor;s UI isn't right, but the batteries are working fine for everything else.  So that I understand, what you are asking is to make sure the battery monitor is showing the right values.  This means your assumption is the batteries are lower than needed to sustain the sine waves?


## Victron Forum
[My question](https://community.victronenergy.com/questions/78919/unexpected-inverter-overload.html?childToView=78922#answer-78922) received this response: 
```
rslifkin answered · 12 hours ago
What is the battery voltage doing leading up to the overload? And how big is the battery bank feeding the Multiplus?
```
Both replies point to the battery voltage.  Is it because it showed low battery?  That is peculiar.  Part of my issue is understanding exactly what is in Aaron's head.  I can start by plugging the water heater back in and then running it again.  This time with a movie being taken of battery monitoring. by doing a screen shot.  Will start there....

-- also check the install of the battery monitor - not working correctly?
-- also is the inverter talking to the battery monitor??????

